Hey, welcome back to booster income
with Bootstrap to WordPress.
New section/module.
I don't really know what
to call these anymore.
This one's gonna be finalizing
your WordPress theme.
We're gonna add and
customize some sidebars and widgets.
Know my widgets.
[MUSIC]
Hey, welcome back.
We're gonna be playing around
with some widgets here.
So this is the static site.
Just wanna show you over here,
we have a few of these widgets.
And this is obviously, this is hardcoded
and I just wanted to show you.
What we're going to be trying to achieve
in this lecture is something like this.
Currently on our actual WordPress site
we have some generic widgets here.
While they still look the same as the
final design, I want to show you how you
can manage these, because you can
really add as many as you want.
You can remove them,
you edit them, customize them.
And everything like that so head back to
your dashboard and go to appearance and
widgets.
In Widgets is where you can
manage your sidebar and
the widgets within that sidebar.
So, over here these
are the available widgets and
you can see you have things like archive,
calendars, custom menus, pages,
recent posts, search text,
so on and so forth.
And right here is a metabox
called Sidebar, and
you can drag and
drop these widgets in here, and
these widgets are customizable based on
the settings they allow you to customize.
A lot of the time you can
just change the title and
choose if you want to display any extra
information or anything like that.
The other thing in the newest
version of WordPress,
the latest version of WordPress, you can
actually go to the customize section.
So I clicked on Manage Customizer.
And you could see the widgets here in
the customizer, and you can drag those
widgets around, and
they'll reflect in real time over here.
And you can see if you hover over
them then the corresponding widget
will highlight.
So you can see what you're working with.
So for
example I don't want recent comments here.
I'm just going to remove this.
So comments will go away.
Same with any of these other ones.
So let's see what we got here.
We got this is a text box with
some custom text and a button.
We just have a search bar some more
custom text, posts and categories.
So let's mimic this right here.
So let's go back here and
work on our customized section, why not.
Search looks good,
we don't have to do anything.
But we need to add a new widget.
So let's add a text box.
And I want that up at the top because this
is gonna be where our opt in window is for
our mailing list.
And this is gonna say
join our mailing list.
And let's copy that text.
Paste that in here.
And then we will make a strong
tag around the rest of this here,
pretty sure this is how we did
it over here, close enough.
Then we have a button to opt in,
to trigger the modal window.
Well basically all I got to do
now is head into our static
site here and
open up file with the side bar in there.
And I'm just going to copy that HTML.
So right here, click here to subscribe and
you've got the button HTML.
And I'm just going to
paste that down here.
And maybe I'll just add a break
tag couple, break tags.
There we go clean this up a little
bit we don't need all this space
and now if I were to click this button,
technically a moto window should pop up.
And there it is.
And then you could subscribe to
the mailing list, theoretically.
We don't have this hooked up yet.
So, there we go.
We've got that.
You could see this widget worked out good.
Let's close that one up.
What do we got next?
We've got the search and
then we've got some more text here.
This is simple.
that's just another text widget.
Just gonna click that and I'm gonna
bring that right under the search.
There we go.
And that's just gonna say
about Bootstrap to WordPress.
And then, I'm just going to snag
some Lauren Lipson right here.
Paste that in there.
You get the idea.
And they got recent posts.
I'm going to remove archives,
and that categories.
And we don't need meta here because
this is just not really that useful.
Just gonna remove that as well.
There we go, and
we've cleaned up our sidebar, looks good.
Now what if we wanted to
have different sidebars?
So, I'm gonna save and publish that first.
So say,
If you had other pages with sidebars.
Right now we really only have the blog.
You can create new side
bars to add widgets to,
by going back to your code and
then head to your functions dot PHP.
Search for sidebar and
you'll see here there's around line 74.
We got register widget area.
So in this function,
Bootstrap to WordPress widgets in it.
We have one sidebar, register sidebar,
you can see it's called sidebar.
The ID is sidebar-1 and then there's just
some extra info here in the array that
helps set up the register of the sidebar.
And this sidebar is the one that shows
up in our appearance widgets menu.
Now we can create new sidebars by
registering as many as we want, and
then we could use those wherever
we want on our site, and
I'll show you how to do that,
just as an example.
So I'm going to copy this register
sidebar function and array.
I'm gonna register another
another side bar and
I have to change the info, so
the name is going to be Extra Sidebar.
And then the id, sidebar-2, and
then this looks fine to me,
all the rest looks good,
keep the same markup.
I'm gonna save that.
Now if I were to go back to
my appearance in Widgets and
refresh this, I should have another
sidebar called Extra Sidebar.
And I'm free to drag more info in here,
and I could do that.
I could drag in Archives, I could drag
in Tag Cloud, so on and so forth.
And so we got our extra sidebar here.
Now it's not gonna show up anywhere,
this isn't just gonna automatically show
up by using the getSidebar function.
We actually have to use an additional
function to pull this into our template.
So let's just say I wanted to put
this index here, the blog index.
And so to pull that sidebar in,
all I need to do is use the function
called dynamic_sidebar.
And then dynamic sidebar,
I just pull in as a parameter here
the id of the sidebar I'm looking for.
So here, I'm looking for sidebar-2.
And here is the parameter say sidebar-2.
If I save that and go back and refresh
this, then you will see I should have it
at the bottom at least the archive because
there are no other custom menus right now.
So this is it, just to prove it works.
I am going to remove get sidebar,
save that, and
now we should just have the one sidebar.
And so this is just, I just put both
sidebars on the blog, but if you wanted to
use any other sidebars on different pats
of your site then you could do that.
Now, you don't have to limit this to
just sidebars literally like an aside.
On the left or right side of your page.
In this could be like
a footer widget area.
So, for example, if you had in the footer,
you wanted to have a bonus little footer
section, where you had custom menus,
an opt-in box or your categories,
things like that.
Then you can register that as a side bar,
add the widgets in the widgets section,
and then have it appear here.
You just have to style it so
it looked appropriate for a footer for
a horizontal layout rather than
a vertical sidebar layout right here.
And so basically that's how sidebars and
widgets work.
You really just need to play around in
here in appearance and widgets, and
you could play around
with the widgets here.
You can download and install plugins
that allow you to have extra widgets.
A lot of features in premium and
free plugins.
Give you the ability to add widgets
based on whatever you downloaded.
So if there was like a calendar,
an event calendar plug in,
it allows you to use a widget.
You can use short codes and everything
inside your sidebars and your widgets.
So there's a lot you could
do with the widgets section.
And if you wanted to extend that
functionality you can create your
own sidebars by registering
them in your functions.php.
And it's really easy, as you saw.
So in the next lecture I'm gonna show you
a little bit more about WordPress menus
and creating a custom menu so you can use
that throughout the rest of your site.
[MUSIC]